oh good morning this is sherry Cheever
last week on my blog walking on the bad
side I posted a box for the tailored
expressions blonde comp that had the
porcelain flowers on the top made with
Spellbinder dyes it's this one right
here so what I want to do today is to
show you how to make those flowers and
I'm calling it for faux parceling I
don't know that there's another name for
it so I'm gonna call it that until
someone emails me and says hey I've done
that before and this is what I've called
it so let's go ahead I'm gonna go get
some more coffee and then we'll get
started thank you
alrighty now I'm back I've got my coffee
and we're all set to go before I start
I'll show you
I've already die-cut and folded the
pieces of the flower that I will be
working with and they just fit together
like so and and once we start working
with them in the UT you'll see how it
just kind of all comes together first
what I do is I have my die cut piece and
I cut down from one of the petals down
to the center of the flower if you go
past that's okay because we want it to
be able to line up right like this
without any problems so using my
favorite glue which is Ranger matte
accents or glossy accents I prefer the
matte though for jobs like this I'm just
going to apply a little bit of the glue
and then just stick it together to hold
it while it's drying since I do a number
of these pieces at one time I use a
little closed pin that I got at Target
in the dollar section and it just toads
it nicely and I can set it to the side
to dry now I already have one that we've
tried and two before we put this in the
UT we want to form this so I will push
up through the bottom making a little
dent and then just start rounding the
flower edges you can shape them however
you want I have mine pointing down and a
little crooked if they tear I find that
it's no big deal because it adds a
little character to the flower itself so
then we have a section of the flower
that is ready to dip into the UT now
hopefully my UT is melted they'll move
the melting pot over and have a look and
it looks good to me so what I'll do is
starting with the base of the flower I'm
just going to dip it into the UT a pair
of tweezers which will help me work this
around and then pull it out you're going
to make sure both sides are covered well
as you can see it bubbles and it's
turning white but the whites no big deal
don't get alarmed it will eventually it
just goes away so I need to get the
center of this flower piece if I would
quit burning my fingers and now that I
have this I'm going to pull it up and
let it drain hopefully there we go just
hold up your flower piece and let the
excess UT drain off now I'm using my
Ranger nan craft nonstick craft sheet
and I'm going to just lay my flower
piece down on the sheet no big deal
we'll start again with the next layer
and we're just going to build this
flower from the bottom up so I'm going
to keep dipping each layer into the UT
making sure I get it covered well and
draining each piece of the excess UT now
when you bring this out and you apply it
to the bottom layer you might need a
little help getting it off but what's
great about it is where it falls it
stays most of the time and the UT
actually acts as your glue to hold
everything into place once it dries we
have one more layer
and all of these layers have been cut
and folded over one time I didn't cut
any of the excess out I just folded it
over and glued it so that it could have
some type of shape and we have there's
our third layer as you can see it just
kind of sets there and we're just gonna
keep going I hope you're patient with me
your tweezers might get a little sticky
and that's okay if they do once the UT
hardens you can just it just comes right
off like to do is peel it off and if
we'll work it down if it doesn't go
right where you want it to be you've
still got a little bit of time to move
it around now I happen to have two sets
of tweezers that I work with because I
don't want to wait
and this piece we're going to drain it
and lay it down here I think we're gonna
need a little help with this one
and we are but it's there and now for
the final piece it's just the little
itty bitty piece from the inside and I
didn't even cut it I just folded it up
and wadded it up into a little ball and
unfolded it and it's ready and it will
be the inside of the flower and I'm just
gonna lay it right there now that's done
I'm going to since the you deep pot is
very hot I'm going to move it out of my
way
and this UD dries quickly anything extra
you can flip off or just kind of peel
away as the little furry things are
excuse me
but as you can see I was able to pick it
right up off my craft sheet and I can
already touch it and there's a little
little rough but we can just smooth
those out and actually let's try this
because I haven't done it yet but let's
take our heat gun
and it melts those edges right away how
perfect is that it melted the excess
where I had it and I'm already with my
flower embellishment you add it to a box
a book anything I want to add it to
maybe a calendar a frame I don't know
have fun make a couple add them to
whatever your project is and then let me
see them I'd love to see what you did